# 058 

## connectivity standards alliance

## Matter Standard Namespaces

Version 1.4.1

Document: 23-31936-004_Matter-1.4.1-Standard-Namespaces.pdf
March 17, 2025
Sponsored by: Connectivity Standards Alliance
Accepted by: This document has been accepted for release by the Connectivity Standards Alliance Board of Directors on March 17, 2025

Abstract: The Matter specification defines fundamental requirements to enable an interoperable application layer solution for smart home devices over the Internet Protocol.

Keywords: Referenced in Chapter 1.

Copyright © 2022-2025 Connectivity Standards Alliance, Inc.
508 Second Street, Suite 109B Davis, CA 95616 - USA
www.csa-iot.org
All rights reserved.
Permission is granted to members of the Connectivity Standards Alliance to reproduce this document for their own use or the use of other Connectivity Standards Alliance members only, provided this notice is included. All other rights reserved. Duplication for sale, or for commercial or for-profit use is strictly prohibited without the prior written consent of the Connectivity Standards Alliance.

.

# 太 matter 

## Matter Semantic Tag Namespaces

.

# Table of Contents 

Notice of Use and Disclosure ..... 1
Revision History ..... 3

1. Introduction ..... 5
1.1. CSA Reference Documents ..... 6
2. Common Closure Semantic Tag Namespace ..... 9
3. Common Compass Direction Semantic Tag Namespace ..... 11
4. Common Compass Location Semantic Tag Namespace ..... 13
5. Common Direction Semantic Tag Namespace ..... 15
6. Common Level Semantic Tag Namespace ..... 17
7. Common Location Semantic Tag Namespace ..... 19
8. Common Number Semantic Tag Namespace ..... 21
9. Common Position Semantic Tag Namespace ..... 23
9.1. Examples. ..... 23
10. Common Landmark Semantic Tag Namespace ..... 25
11. Common Relative Position Semantic Tag Namespace ..... 27
12. Electrical Measurement Semantic Tag Namespace ..... 29
13. Common Area Semantic Tag Namespace ..... 31
14. Laundry Semantic Tag Namespace ..... 35
15. Power Source Semantic Tag Namespace ..... 37
15.1. Grid Tag. ..... 37
15.2. Solar Tag ..... 37
15.3. Battery Tag ..... 37
15.4. EV Tag ..... 38
16. Refrigerator Semantic Tag Namespace ..... 39
17. Room Air Conditioner Semantic Tag Namespace ..... 41
18. Switches Semantic Tag Namespace ..... 43
18.1. Custom Tag. ..... 43

.

# Notice of Use and Disclosure 

Copyright © Connectivity Standards Alliance (2023). All rights reserved. The information within this document is the property of the Connectivity Standards Alliance and its use and disclosure are restricted, except as expressly set forth herein.

Connectivity Standards Alliance hereby grants you a fully-paid, non-exclusive, nontransferable, worldwide, limited and revocable license (without the right to sublicense), under Connectivity Standards Alliance's applicable copyright rights, to view, download, save, reproduce and use the document solely for your own internal purposes and in accordance with the terms of the license set forth herein. This license does not authorize you to, and you expressly warrant that you shall not: (a) permit others (outside your organization) to use this document; (b) post or publish this document; (c) modify, adapt, translate, or otherwise change this document in any manner or create any derivative work based on this document; (d) remove or modify any notice or label on this document, including this Copyright Notice, License and Disclaimer. The Connectivity Standards Alliance does not grant you any license hereunder other than as expressly stated herein.

Elements of this document may be subject to third party intellectual property rights, including without limitation, patent, copyright or trademark rights, and any such third party may or may not be a member of the Connectivity Standards Alliance. Connectivity Standards Alliance members grant other Connectivity Standards Alliance members certain intellectual property rights as set forth in the Connectivity Standards Alliance IPR Policy. Connectivity Standards Alliance members do not grant you any rights under this license. The Connectivity Standards Alliance is not responsible for, and shall not be held responsible in any manner for, identifying or failing to identify any or all such third party intellectual property rights. Please visit www.csa-iot.org for more information on how to become a member of the Connectivity Standards Alliance.

This document and the information contained herein are provided on an "AS IS" basis and the Connectivity Standards Alliance DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO (A) ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OF THIRD PARTIES (INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION ANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS INCLUDING PATENT, COPYRIGHT OR TRADEMARK RIGHTS); OR (B) ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE OR NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT WILL THE CONNECTIVITY STANDARDS ALLIANCE BE LIABLE FOR ANY LOSS OF PROFITS, LOSS OF BUSINESS, LOSS OF USE OF DATA, INTERRUPTION OF BUSINESS, OR FOR ANY OTHER DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR EXEMPLARY, INCIDENTAL, PUNITIVE OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND, IN CONTRACT OR IN TORT, IN CONNECTION WITH THIS DOCUMENT OR THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HEREIN, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH LOSS OR DAMAGE.

All company, brand and product names in this document may be trademarks that are the sole property of their respective owners.

This notice and disclaimer must be included on all copies of this document.
Connectivity Standards Alliance
508 Second Street, Suite 206
Davis, CA 95616, USA

Matter Standard Namespaces R1.4.1 Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-31936 March 17, 2025

# Revision History

|  Revision | Date | Details | Editor  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  1 | October 18, 2023 | Version 1.2 | Robert Szewczyk  |
|  2 | April 17, 2024 | Version 1.3 | Robert Szewczyk  |
|  3 | November 4, 2024 | Version 1.4 | Robert Szewczyk  |
|  4 | March 17, 2024 | Version 1.4.1 | Robert Szewczyk  |

Matter Standard Namespaces R1.4.1 Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-31936 March 17, 2025

# Chapter 1. Introduction 

This document contains namespaces as part of the semantic tag feature.
The standard namespaces are defined in this appendix. They consist of the common namespaces and device-specific namespaces.

The Common namespaces start with Namespace ID 0x01 and contains semantic tags that can apply to any domain. Examples include direction words like 'left', 'right', 'up' and 'down' or location words like 'inside' and 'outside'.

Device-specific namespaces begin with Namespace ID 0x41. The semantic tags defined in the device-specific namespaces SHALL be restricted for use within each device type or set of device types.

Some namespaces specific to certain group of device types (related to Energy and Laundry) have been assigned an ID from the common range, even though they are only applicable to a certain set of device types only.

A TagList MAY combine several of these tags, as appropriate for the device, provided that for any given device type the tags come from the namespace for that device type as well as any of the common namespaces, and/or from a manufacturer-specific namespace. Example: An outdoor luminaire with two light units, one shining upwards and one shining downwards. One light unit would be represented by an endpoint with a TagList which has TagStructs with Tags "Location.Outdoor" and "Position.Top" and "Direction.Upward", while the other light unit would be represented by an endpoint with a TagList which has TagStructs with Tags "Location.Outdoor" and "Position.Bottom" and "Direction.Downward".

| ID | Namespace | Summary |
| :-- | :-- | :-- |
| Common namespaces |  |  |
| 0x01 | Common Closure Namespace | Tags which are useful in <br> describing things related to <br> closing and opening |
| 0x02 | Common Compass Direction <br> Namespace | Tags which are useful in <br> describing things related to <br> compass direction |
| 0x03 | Common Compass Location <br> Namespace | Tags which are useful in <br> describing things related to <br> compass location |
| 0x04 | Common Direction Namespace | Tags which are useful in <br> describing things related to <br> direction |
| 0x05 | Common Level Namespace | Tags which are useful in <br> describing things related to <br> level |

| ID | Namespace | Summary |
| :--: | :--: | :--: |
| 0x06 | Common Location Namespace | Tags which are useful in describing things related to location |
| 0x07 | Common Number Namespace | Tags which are useful in describing things related to numbering |
| 0x08 | Common Position Namespace | Tags which are useful in describing things related to position |
| 0x0A | Electrical Measurement Namespace | Tags which are useful in describing electrical loads |
| 0x0E | Laundry Namespace | Tags which are useful with laundry device types |
| 0x0F | Power Source Namespace | Tags which are useful with power source device types |
| 0x10 | Common Area Namespace | Tags which are useful in describing things related to home areas |
| 0x11 | Common Landmark Namespace | Tags which are useful in describing things related to home landmarks |
| 0x12 | Common Relative Position <br> Namespace | Tags which are useful in describing things related to position relative to a reference external to the device |
| Device-specific namespaces |  |  |
| 0x41 | Refrigerator Namespace | Tags which are useful with refrigeration device types |
| 0x42 | Room Air Conditioner Namespace | Tags which are useful with Room Air Conditioner device types |
| 0x43 | Switches Namespace | Tags which are useful with switch device types |

# 1.1. CSA Reference Documents 

| Reference | Reference Location/URL | Description |
| :-- | :-- | :-- |
| $[$ CoreSpec] | https://groups.csa-iot.org/wg/ <br> members-all/document/27349 | Core Matter Specification |

| Reference | Reference Location/URL | Description |
| :-- | :-- | :-- |
| [DeviceLibrary] | https://groups.csa-iot.org/wg/ <br> members-all/document/27351 | Device Library |
| [AppClusters] | https://groups.csa-iot.org/wg/ <br> members-all/document/27350 | Application Clusters |

Matter Standard Namespaces R1.4.1 Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-31936 March 17, 2025

# Chapter 2. Common Closure Semantic Tag Namespace 

This section contains the Common Closure semantic tag namespace as part of the semantic tag feature.

The tags contained in this namespace MAY be used in any domain or context, to indicate an association with a feature of a Closure, e.g. the button to activate opening a garage door.

| ID | Namespace |
| :-- | :-- |
| $0 \times 01$ | Common Closure |

The following tags are defined in this namespace.

| ID | Name | Summary |
| :-- | :-- | :-- |
| $0 \times 00$ | Opening | Move toward open position |
| $0 \times 01$ | Closing | Move toward closed position |
| $0 \times 02$ | Stop | Stop any movement |

Matter Standard Namespaces R1.4.1 Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-31936 March 17, 2025

# Chapter 3. Common Compass Direction Semantic Tag Namespace 

This section contains the Common Compass Direction semantic tag namespace as part of the semantic tag feature.

The tags contained in this namespace MAY be used in any domain or context, to indicate an association with a movement into a certain compass direction. Note the difference with Chapter 4, Common Compass Location Semantic Tag Namespace.

| ID | Namespace |
| :-- | :-- |
| $0 \times 02$ | Common Compass Direction |

The following tags are defined in this namespace.

| ID | Name | Summary |
| :-- | :-- | :-- |
| 0x00 | Northward |  |
| $0 \times 01$ | North-Eastward |  |
| $0 \times 02$ | Eastward |  |
| $0 \times 03$ | South-Eastward |  |
| $0 \times 04$ | Southward |  |
| $0 \times 05$ | South-Westward |  |
| $0 \times 06$ | Westward |  |
| $0 \times 07$ | North-Westward |  |

Matter Standard Namespaces R1.4.1 Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-31936 March 17, 2025

# Chapter 4. Common Compass Location Semantic Tag Namespace 

This section contains the Common Compass Location semantic tag namespace as part of the semantic tag feature.

The tags contained in this namespace MAY be used in any domain or context, to indicate an association with a position in a certain compass direction (e.g. an outdoor sensor in the North garden). Note the difference with Chapter 3, Common Compass Direction Semantic Tag Namespace.

| ID | Namespace |
| :-- | :-- |
| $0 \times 03$ | Common Compass Location |

The following tags are defined in this namespace.

| ID | Name | Summary |
| :-- | :-- | :-- |
| 0x00 | North |  |
| $0 \times 01$ | North-East |  |
| $0 \times 02$ | East |  |
| $0 \times 03$ | South-East |  |
| $0 \times 04$ | South |  |
| $0 \times 05$ | South-West |  |
| $0 \times 06$ | West |  |
| $0 \times 07$ | North-West |  |

Matter Standard Namespaces R1.4.1 Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-31936 March 17, 2025

# Chapter 5. Common Direction Semantic Tag 

## Namespace

This section contains the Common Direction semantic tag namespace as part of the semantic tag feature.

The tags contained in this namespace MAY be used in any domain or context, to indicate an association with a movement in a certain direction relative to the device. Note the difference with Chapter 9, Common Position Semantic Tag Namespace.

| ID | Namespace |
| :-- | :-- |
| $0 \times 04$ | Common Direction |

The following tags are defined in this namespace.

| ID | Name | Summary |
| :-- | :-- | :-- |
| 0x00 | Upward |  |
| $0 \times 01$ | Downward |  |
| $0 \times 02$ | Leftward |  |
| $0 \times 03$ | Rightward |  |
| $0 \times 04$ | Forward |  |
| $0 \times 05$ | Backward |  |

Matter Standard Namespaces R1.4.1 Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-31936 March 17, 2025

# Chapter 6. Common Level Semantic Tag Namespace 

This section contains the Common Level semantic tag namespace as part of the semantic tag feature.

The tags contained in this namespace MAY be used in any domain or context, to indicate an association with a certain level for a feature of a device (e.g. a button to set the speed of a fan).

| ID | Namespace |
| :-- | :-- |
| 0x05 | Common Level |

The following tags are defined in this namespace.

| ID | Name | Summary |
| :-- | :-- | :-- |
| $0 \times 00$ | Low |  |
| $0 \times 01$ | Medium |  |
| $0 \times 02$ | High |  |

Matter Standard Namespaces R1.4.1 Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-31936 March 17, 2025

# Chapter 7. Common Location Semantic Tag 

## Namespace

This section contains the Common Location semantic tag namespace as part of the semantic tag feature.

The tags contained in this namespace MAY be used in any domain or context, to indicate an association with a location of a device (e.g. an outdoor temperature sensor).

| ID | Namespace |
| :-- | :-- |
| 0x06 | Common Location |

The following tags are defined in this namespace.

| ID | Name | Summary |
| :-- | :-- | :-- |
| 0x00 | Indoor | Element is indoors or related to <br> indoor equipment/conditions <br> (e.g. the "indoor" temperature). |
| 0x01 | Outdoor | Element is outdoors or related <br> to outdoor equipment/condi- <br> tions (e.g. the "outdoor" temper- <br> ature). |
| 0x02 | Inside | Element is located inside the <br> equipment (e.g. a sensor <br> "inside" a cabinet). |
| 0x03 | Outside | Element is located outside the <br> equipment (e.g. a sensor "out- <br> side" a cabinet) |

Matter Standard Namespaces R1.4.1 Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-31936 March 17, 2025

# Chapter 8. Common Number Semantic Tag 

## Namespace

This section contains the Common Number semantic tag namespace as part of the semantic tag feature.

The tags contained in this namespace MAY be used in any domain or context, to indicate an association with a certain numeric feature of a device (e.g. a numeric input button).

| ID | Namespace |
| :-- | :-- |
| 0x07 | Common Number |

The following tags are defined in this namespace.

| ID | Name | Summary |
| :-- | :-- | :-- |
| 0x00 | Zero |  |
| 0x01 | One |  |
| 0x02 | Two |  |
| 0x03 | Three |  |
| 0x04 | Four |  |
| 0x05 | Five |  |
| 0x06 | Six |  |
| 0x07 | Seven |  |
| 0x08 | Eight |  |
| 0x09 | Nine |  |
| 0x0A | Ten |  |

Matter Standard Namespaces R1.4.1 Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-31936 March 17, 2025

# Chapter 9. Common Position Semantic Tag 

## Namespace

This section contains the Common Position semantic tag namespace as part of the semantic tag feature.

The tags contained in this namespace MAY be used in any domain or context, to indicate an association with a position relative to the device (e.g. the temperature sensor in the top drawer of a refrigerator, or location of the buttons on a multi-button switch device). Note the difference with Chapter 5, Common Direction Semantic Tag Namespace.

| ID | Namespace |
| :-- | :-- |
| 0x08 | Common Position |

The following tags are defined in this namespace.

| ID | Name | Summary |
| :-- | :-- | :-- |
| $0 \times 00$ | Left |  |
| $0 \times 01$ | Right |  |
| $0 \times 02$ | Top |  |
| $0 \times 03$ | Bottom |  |
| $0 \times 04$ | Middle |  |
| $0 \times 05$ | Row | Numeric value provided in <br> Label field |
| $0 \times 06$ | Column | Numeric value provided in <br> Label field |

When multiple endpoints are used for device types, and the associated consumer-facing locations of those endpoints are organized in a straight line, grid or matrix, these endpoints SHOULD be allocated in top-to-bottom, left-to-right order.

For grids or arrays larger than 3 elements in any direction, the Row and Column tags SHOULD be used.

If the Row or Column tags are used, the Label field in the same Semantic Tag structure SHALL be filled with a number comprised of Arabic numerals encoded as a string to indicate the row/column of the item. Number words (e.g. "one", "two", etc.) SHALL NOT be used to describe the position of the item. The first row/column SHALL use Label "1".

### 9.1. Examples

The following example illustrates a composed device comprised of 9 endpoints arranged in a $3 \times 3$ grid. This example uses position tags to indicate position.

| Composed device arranged in a 3x3 grid |  |  |  |  |  |
| :-- | :-- | :-- | :-- | :-- | :-- |
| Top | Left | Top | Middle | Top | Right |
| Middle | Left | Middle | Middle | Right |  |
| Bottom | Left | Bottom |  |  | Right |

The endpoints would be populated in this order (showing the TagList in their Descriptor cluster):

- EP 21: Top Left
- EP 22: Top Middle
- EP 23: Top Right
- EP 24: Middle Left
- EP 25: Middle
- EP 26: Middle Right
- EP 27: Bottom Left
- EP 28: Bottom Middle
- EP 29: Bottom Right

The following example illustrates a composed device comprised of 8 endpoints arranged in a $2 \times 4$ grid. This example uses the Row and Column tags along with Arabic numeral Labels to indicate position.

| Row "1" Column "1" | Row "1" Column "2" | Row "1" Column "3" | Row "1" Column "4" |
| :-- | :-- | :-- | :-- |
| Row "2" Column "1" | Row "2" Column "2" | Row "2" Column "3" | Row "2" Column "4" |

The endpoints would be populated in this order (showing the TagList in their Descriptor cluster):

- EP 31: \{Row, "1"\}, \{Column, "1"\}
- EP 32: \{Row, "1"\}, \{Column, "2"\}
- EP 33: \{Row, "1"\}, \{Column, "3"\}
- EP 34: \{Row, "1"\}, \{Column, "4"\}
- EP 35: \{Row, "2"\}, \{Column, "1"\}
- EP 36: \{Row, "2"\}, \{Column, "2"\}
- EP 37: \{Row, "2"\}, \{Column, "3"\}
- EP 38: \{Row, "2"\}, \{Column, "4"\}

# Chapter 10. Common Landmark Semantic Tag Namespace 

This section contains the Common Landmark semantic tag namespace as part of the semantic tag feature.

The tags contained in this namespace MAY be used in any domain or context, to indicate an association with a home landmark.

| ID | Namespace |
| :-- | :-- |
| $0 \times 11$ | Common Landmark Namespace |

The following tags are defined in this namespace.

| ID | Name | Summary |
| :-- | :-- | :-- |
| 0x00 | Air Conditioner |  |
| $0 \times 01$ | Air Purifier |  |
| $0 \times 02$ | Back Door |  |
| $0 \times 03$ | Bar Stool |  |
| $0 \times 04$ | Bath Mat |  |
| $0 \times 05$ | Bathtub |  |
| $0 \times 06$ | Bed |  |
| $0 \times 07$ | Bookshelf |  |
| $0 \times 08$ | Chair |  |
| $0 \times 09$ | Christmas Tree |  |
| $0 \times 0 \mathrm{~A}$ | Coat Rack |  |
| $0 \times 0 \mathrm{~B}$ | Coffee Table |  |
| $0 \times 0 \mathrm{C}$ | Cooking Range |  |
| $0 \times 0 \mathrm{D}$ | Couch |  |
| $0 \times 0 \mathrm{E}$ | Countertop |  |
| $0 \times 0 \mathrm{~F}$ | Cradle |  |
| $0 \times 10$ | Crib |  |
| $0 \times 11$ | Desk |  |
| $0 \times 12$ | Dining Table |  |
| $0 \times 13$ | Dishwasher |  |
| $0 \times 14$ | Door |  |
| $0 \times 15$ | Dresser |  |

| ID | Name | Summary |
| :-- | :-- | :-- |
| 0x16 | Laundry Dryer |  |
| 0x17 | Fan |  |
| 0x18 | Fireplace |  |
| 0x19 | Freezer |  |
| 0x1A | Front Door |  |
| 0x1B | High Chair |  |
| 0x1C | Kitchen Island |  |
| 0x1D | Lamp |  |
| 0x1E | Litter Box |  |
| 0x1F | Mirror |  |
| 0x20 | Nightstand |  |
| 0x21 | Oven |  |
| 0x22 | Pet Bed |  |
| 0x23 | Pet Bowl |  |
| 0x24 | Pet Crate |  |
| 0x25 | Refrigerator |  |
| 0x26 | Scratching Post |  |
| 0x27 | Shoe Rack |  |
| 0x28 | Shower |  |
| 0x29 | Side Door |  |
| 0x2A | Sink |  |
| 0x2B | Sofa |  |
| 0x2C | Stove |  |
| 0x2D | Table |  |
| 0x2E | Toilet |  |
| 0x2F | Trash Can |  |
| 0x30 | Laundry Washer |  |
| 0x31 | Window |  |
| 0x32 | Wine Cooler |  |

# Chapter 11. Common Relative Position Semantic Tag Namespace 

This section contains the Common Relative Position semantic tag namespace as part of the semantic tag feature.

The tags contained in this namespace MAY be used in any domain or context, to indicate an association with a position relative to some reference, which must be specified by the user of these tags. For example, the position may be relative to a household item, such as a dining table, and the user of these tags must indicate that. Note the difference with Chapter 9, Common Position Semantic Tag Namespace, which contains tags indicating the position relative to the device.

| ID | Namespace |
| :-- | :-- |
| $0 \times 12$ | Common Relative Position |

The following tags are defined in this namespace.

| ID | Name | Summary |
| :-- | :-- | :-- |
| $0 \times 00$ | Under |  |
| $0 \times 01$ | Next To | Area in proximity to the point <br> of reference |
| $0 \times 02$ | Around | The area surrounding the point <br> the reference |
| $0 \times 03$ | On |  |
| $0 \times 04$ | Above |  |
| $0 \times 05$ | Front Of |  |
| $0 \times 06$ | Behind |  |

Matter Standard Namespaces R1.4.1 Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-31936 March 17, 2025

# Chapter 12. Electrical Measurement Semantic Tag Namespace 

This section contains the standard semantic tag namespace for electrical measurement as part of the semantic tag feature.

The tags contained in this namespace are restricted for use in the electrical measurement domain and SHALL NOT be used in any other domain or context.

| ID | Namespace |
| :-- | :-- |
| 0x0A | Electrical Measurement |

The following tags are defined in this namespace.

| ID | Name | Summary |
| :-- | :-- | :-- |
| 0x00 | DC | Indicates values measured for a <br> DC load |
| 0x01 | AC | Indicates values measured for a <br> single-phase AC load, or values <br> measured for the collective load <br> on a polyphase AC power sup- <br> ply |
| 0x02 | ACPhase1 | Indicates values measured for <br> an AC load on phase 1 of a <br> polyphase power supply |
| 0x03 | ACPhase2 | Indicates values measured for <br> an AC load on phase 2 of a <br> polyphase power supply |
| 0x04 | ACPhase3 | Indicates values measured for <br> an AC load on phase 3 of a <br> polyphase power supply |

Matter Standard Namespaces R1.4.1 Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-31936 March 17, 2025

# Chapter 13. Common Area Semantic Tag 

## Namespace

This section contains the Common Area semantic tag namespace as part of the semantic tag feature.
The tags contained in this namespace MAY be used in any domain or context, to indicate an association with an indoor or outdoor area of a home.

| ID | Namespace |
| :-- | :-- |
| $0 \times 10$ | Common Area Namespace |

The following tags are defined in this namespace.

| ID | Name | Summary |
| :-- | :-- | :-- |
| 0x00 | Aisle |  |
| $0 \times 01$ | Attic |  |
| $0 \times 02$ | Back Door |  |
| $0 \times 03$ | Back Yard |  |
| $0 \times 04$ | Balcony |  |
| $0 \times 05$ | Ballroom |  |
| $0 \times 06$ | Bathroom | Also known as Restroom |
| $0 \times 07$ | Bedroom |  |
| $0 \times 08$ | Border |  |
| $0 \times 09$ | Boxroom | A small room typically used for <br> storage |
| $0 \times 0 \mathrm{~A}$ | Breakfast Room |  |
| $0 \times 0 \mathrm{~B}$ | Carport |  |
| $0 \times 0 \mathrm{C}$ | Cellar |  |
| $0 \times 0 \mathrm{D}$ | Cloakroom |  |
| $0 \times 0 \mathrm{E}$ | Closet |  |
| $0 \times 0 \mathrm{~F}$ | Conservatory |  |
| $0 \times 10$ | Corridor |  |
| $0 \times 11$ | Craft Room |  |
| $0 \times 12$ | Cupboard |  |
| $0 \times 13$ | Deck |  |
| $0 \times 14$ | Den | A small, comfortable room for <br> individual activities such as <br> work or hobbies |

| ID | Name | Summary |
| :--: | :--: | :--: |
| 0x15 | Dining |  |
| 0x16 | Drawing Room |  |
| 0x17 | Dressing Room |  |
| 0x18 | Driveway |  |
| 0x19 | Elevator |  |
| 0x1A | Ensuite | A bathroom directly accessible from a bedroom |
| 0x1B | Entrance |  |
| 0x1C | Entryway |  |
| 0x1D | Family Room |  |
| 0x1E | Foyer |  |
| 0x1F | Front Door |  |
| 0x20 | Front Yard |  |
| 0x21 | Game Room |  |
| 0x22 | Garage |  |
| 0x23 | Garage Door |  |
| 0x24 | Garden |  |
| 0x25 | Garden Door |  |
| 0x26 | Guest Bathroom | Also known as Guest Restroom |
| 0x27 | Guest Bedroom |  |
| 0x28 | Guest Room |  |
| 0x29 | Gym |  |
| 0x2A | Hallway |  |
| 0x2B | Hearth Room | A cozy room containing a fireplace or other point heat source |
| 0x2C | Kids Room |  |
| 0x2D | Kids Bedroom |  |
| 0x2E | Kitchen |  |
| 0x2F | Laundry Room |  |
| 0x30 | Lawn |  |
| 0x31 | Library |  |
| 0x32 | Living Room |  |
| 0x33 | Lounge |  |
| 0x34 | Media/TV Room |  |

| ID | Name | Summary |
| :--: | :--: | :--: |
| 0x35 | Mud Room | A space used to remove soiled garments prior to entering the domicile proper |
| 0x36 | Music Room |  |
| 0x37 | Nursery |  |
| 0x38 | Office |  |
| 0x39 | Outdoor Kitchen |  |
| 0x3A | Outside |  |
| 0x3B | Pantry | AKA a larder, a place where food is stored |
| 0x3C | Parking Lot |  |
| 0x3D | Parlor |  |
| 0x3E | Patio |  |
| 0x3F | Play Room |  |
| 0x40 | Pool Room |  |
| 0x41 | Porch |  |
| 0x42 | Primary Bathroom |  |
| 0x43 | Primary Bedroom |  |
| 0x44 | Ramp |  |
| 0x45 | Reception Room |  |
| 0x46 | Recreation Room |  |
| 0x47 | Roof |  |
| 0x48 | Sauna |  |
| 0x49 | Scullery | A utility space for cleaning dishes and laundry |
| 0x4A | Sewing Room |  |
| 0x4B | Shed |  |
| 0x4C | Side Door |  |
| 0x4D | Side Yard |  |
| 0x4E | Sitting Room |  |
| 0x4F | Snug | An informal space meant to be 'cozy', 'snug', relaxed, meant to share with family or friends |
| 0x50 | Spa |  |
| 0x51 | Staircase |  |

| ID | Name | Summary |
| :-- | :-- | :-- |
| 0x52 | Steam Room |  |
| 0x53 | Storage Room |  |
| 0x54 | Studio |  |
| 0x55 | Study |  |
| 0x56 | Sun Room |  |
| 0x57 | Swimming Pool |  |
| 0x58 | Terrace |  |
| 0x59 | Toilet | A room dedicated to a toilet; a <br> water closet / WC |
| 0x5A | Utility Room |  |
| 0x5B | Ward |  |
| 0x5C | Workshop |  |

# Chapter 14. Laundry Semantic Tag Namespace 

This section contains the standard semantic tag namespace for laundry as part of the semantic tag feature.

The tags contained in this namespace are restricted for use in the laundry domain and SHALL NOT be used in any other domain or context.

| ID | Namespace |
| :-- | :-- |
| $0 \times 0 \mathrm{E}$ | Laundry |

The following tags are defined in this namespace.

| ID | Name | Summary |
| :-- | :-- | :-- |
| 0x00 | Normal |  |
| $0 \times 01$ | Light Dry |  |
| $0 \times 02$ | Extra Dry |  |
| $0 \times 03$ | No Dry |  |

Matter Standard Namespaces R1.4.1 Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-31936 March 17, 2025

# Chapter 15. Power Source Semantic Tag 

## Namespace

This section contains the standard semantic tag namespace for power sources as part of the semantic tag feature.

The tags contained in this namespace are restricted for use in the power source domain and SHALL NOT be used in any other domain or context.

| ID | Namespace |
| :-- | :-- |
| $0 \times 0 \mathrm{~F}$ | Power Source |

The following tags are defined in this namespace.

| ID | Name | Summary |
| :-- | :-- | :-- |
| 0x00 | Unknown | The Power Source cluster is <br> related to power provided from <br> an unknown source |
| 0x01 | Grid | The Power Source cluster is <br> related to power provided from <br> the electrical grid |
| 0x02 | Solar | The Power Source cluster is <br> related to power provided from <br> a solar panel array |
| 0x03 | Battery | The Power Source cluster is <br> related to power provided from <br> a battery |
| 0x04 | EV | The Power Source cluster is <br> related to power provided from <br> an electric vehicle |

### 15.1. Grid Tag

Power Source clusters with this tag SHALL implement the WIRED feature.

### 15.2. Solar Tag

Power Source clusters with this tag SHALL implement the WIRED feature.

### 15.3. Battery Tag

Power Source clusters with this tag SHALL implement the BAT feature.

# 15.4. EV Tag 

Power Source clusters with this tag SHALL implement the BAT feature.

# Chapter 16. Refrigerator Semantic Tag Namespace 

This section contains the standard semantic tag namespace for refrigerators as part of the semantic tag feature.

The tags contained in this namespace are restricted for use in the refrigerator domain and SHALL NOT be used in any other domain or context.

| ID | Namespace |
| :-- | :-- |
| $0 \times 41$ | Refrigerator |

The following tags are defined in this namespace.

| ID | Name | Summary |
| :-- | :-- | :-- |
| $0 \times 00$ | Refrigerator |  |
| $0 \times 01$ | Freezer |  |

Matter Standard Namespaces R1.4.1 Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-31936 March 17, 2025

# Chapter 17. Room Air Conditioner Semantic Tag Namespace 

This section contains the standard semantic tag namespace for room air conditioners as part of the semantic tag feature.

The tags contained in this namespace are restricted for use in the room air conditioner domain and SHALL NOT be used in any other domain or context.

| ID | Namespace |
| :-- | :-- |
| $0 \times 42$ | Room Air Conditioner |

The following tags are defined in this namespace.

| ID | Name | Summary |
| :-- | :-- | :-- |
| $0 \times 00$ | Evaporator |  |
| $0 \times 01$ | Condenser |  |

Matter Standard Namespaces R1.4.1 Connectivity Standards Alliance Document 23-31936 March 17, 2025

# Chapter 18. Switches Semantic Tag 

## Namespace

This section contains the standard semantic tag namespace for switches as part of the semantic tag feature.

The tags contained in this namespace are restricted for use in the switches domain and SHALL NOT be used in any other domain or context. They are intended to indicate the function of a button on a switch device to allow a client to make an optimized user interface which matches the actual device without requiring a-priori knowledge of the layout of each specific switch device.

Please see the rules for applying these and other tags for switch devices, e.g. from the Common Position Namespace and the Common Number Namespace in the Generic Switch device type section in the Device Library.

| ID | Namespace |
| :-- | :-- |
| $0 \times 43$ | Switches |

The following tags are defined in this namespace.

| ID | Name | Summary |
| :-- | :-- | :-- |
| tags to identify intended function of a button |  |  |
| $0 \times 00$ | On |  |
| $0 \times 01$ | Off |  |
| $0 \times 02$ | Toggle |  |
| $0 \times 03$ | Up | e.g. dim up (light) |
| $0 \times 04$ | Down | e.g. dim down (light) |
| $0 \times 05$ | Next | e.g. select next scene |
| $0 \times 06$ | Previous | e.g. select previous scene |
| $0 \times 07$ | Enter/OK/Select |  |
| $0 \times 08$ | Custom | Textual description provided in <br> Label field |

### 18.1. Custom Tag

When this value is used, the Label field in the same Semantic Tag structure SHALL be filled with a textual description of the function indicated on the button, such as a label or icon printed on the button, e.g. "dining".